[Music]
hello a very good morning to you uh
welcome to breakfast with dan walker and
louise mentioned
the headlines for you at eight o'clock
this morning ten thousand pound fines
and ten year prison sentences the
penalties for breaking travel
restrictions
grant shaps tells this program that
strict new measures are necessary
i think the british public would expect
pretty strong
action and the latest measures are a
major broad to an industry battling for
survival good morning airports airlines
and travel agents say the future of some
firms
have been thrown into doubt
hundreds of thousands of people living
in buildings deemed unsafe since the
grenfell tower disaster we'll find out
today how the government plans to help
them
good morning we've just had the coldest
night of the year so far
minus 17.1 in alt nahara today
we see further snow showers there'll be
some sunshine in between
not quite as windy but still feeling
cold i'll have all the details later in
the program
i believe you have a filter turned on
in the video settings the texas lawyer
trapped by a cat filter
on a zoom call um he had to inform the
judge
he was not a feline
[Music]
good morning the date is the 10th of
february it's wednesday morning and the
government has defended harsh new
penalties
for those found breaking new quarantine
measures from monday
passengers who break the rules could
face fines of 10 000
pounds and up to 10 years in prison but
the transport secretary grant chaps told
breakfast
they were needed our chief political
correspondent adam fleming
joins us now live from westminster adam
good morning to you this is you know the
big story of the morning
um and what has reaction been to those
announcements
so yesterday i think people were quite
surprised first of all that the hotel
quarantine package will cost 1
750 pounds per person
which is a little bit more than people
were expecting the other thing that left
out from the statement from the health
secretary
was as you were saying the prospect of
of prison sentences of up to 10 years
for people who lie on their forms about
whether they've come from one of the red
list countries one of the 33 countries
where travel is is effectively banned
from unless you're a british national
returning
home some conservative mps and some
commentators saying
that that is way more than you would get
as a sentence
for sometimes crimes that could be even
worse than that
but transport secretary grant shaps was
defending it on this program a little
bit earlier
the british public would expect pretty
strong
action because we're not talking now
just about oh there's a lot of
coronavirus in that country and you
might bring
some more of it back when we already
have plenty of it here what we're
talking about now are the mutations the
variants
and that is a different matter
he was also asked by you guys about when
these measures would be lifted because
that's the question lots of conservative
mps and lots of people in the travel
industry
are acting are asking and i was
intrigued by what he said he said
we'll have to wait till everybody in the
uk is vaccinated
which could be some time although he
then appeared to backtrack a little bit
from that and said it was more about the
progress of the vaccination policy
but even more interestingly he said it
also depends on the speed at which other
countries are vaccinating
their populations too and i think people
will hear that and think foreign travel
could be even further off than it felt
yesterday
yeah that was certainly one of the
takeaways from that interview adam
fleming thank you very much
good to talk to you as ever the
government is expected to announce more
funding to pay for the removal of unsafe
cladding on buildings
thousands of flat owners have faced huge
bills for fire safety measures following
the grenfell tower disaster
our consumer affairs correspondent sarah
corker is in the studio with us this
morning and
i know so good morning you've been
following this very closely haven't you
yes good morning and and the government
is under increasing pressure
to do more to tackle the cladding crisis
and also to protect flat owners from
these spiraling costs
now ministers have already allocated 1.6
billion pounds
to remove dangerous cladding but it's
widely acknowledged that that amount
just isn't enough
it's actually estimated it'll cost 15
billion pounds
to fix the fault so ministers have been
grappling with new financial solutions
they will be announced later at around
lunchtime but the big questions are just
how much extra funding they'll be
it's likely to be millions how will it
be allocated
and also how will the government
determine which of the highest
risk blocks now campaigners who have
been
living in these flammable flats for
years now say it's just taking
far too long it's more than three and a
half years since the grenfell tower fire
and it's estimated 700 000 people
are still living in these buildings now
we spoke to will martin
he's a junior doctor in sheffield and he
told us what he's been going through
any money that is released to remediate
cladding
is welcome but obviously many of the
buildings that i've got cladding on have
got a whole
range of other problems that until
funding for those problems
are delivered then lisa le still won't
be able to sell
their properties they'll still be stuck
in unsafe properties
i have a 7 000 pounds a week a week
waking watch on my building
and people across the country are crying
out for
out for help now it's important to
remind you of a bit of the
the background to all of this so the
grenfell tower fire
exposed decades of regulatory failure
safety inspections on other high-rise
blocks
exposed not just flammable cladding but
other fire safety faults too so by that
i mean
defective insulation flammable balconies
missing fire breaks
and the longer it takes to fix all of
that
flat owners are having to pay for all
sorts of things so
insurance bills are going up service
charges are going up they're being asked
to pay for fire alarms
and you heard will there talking about
waking watch
now that's these round-the-clock fire
wardens that have to patrol
the highest risk buildings and that's
costing some people
thousands of pounds and at the heart
really of
resolving this crisis is the question of
who should pay
to fix these faults is it government is
it developers
is it building owners is it leaseholders
at the moment
leaseholders flood owners like will are
saying they're the ones
that are having to pay for all of this
and we will find out
what this announcement is the details to
it from
the housing minister at lunchtime around
12 30.
thank you very much sir thank you in
other news this morning senators
in the u.s have voted to continue donald
trump's impeachment trial after he was
accused of inciting the mob which
stormed the capitol building last month
the former president's lawyers argued
that the process was unconstitutional
because he was no longer in office but
six republicans joined democrats in
voting to carry on
if he's convicted mr trump could be
barred from holding office again
so um there have been a few zoom fails
during lockdown but this could be the
biggest catastrophe
a virtual court hearing in the u.s state
of texas and what happened was the
lawyer
accidentally appeared on screen as a
wide-eyed kitten
here's mark labelle
meet the 69 year old texan attorney who
unintentionally
addressed this virtual courtroom as a
cat
mr ponton i believe you have a filter
turned on
in the video settings
you might want to uh
we're trying to can you hear me judge
i can hear you i think it's a filter
it is and i don't know how to remove it
i've got my assistant here she's trying
to but
uh i'm prepared to go forward with it
that's i'm here live that's not i'm not
a cat
i can i can see that court attorney rob
ponton
pleaded his case of mistaken identity
minutes after he logged on from his
secretary's computer
to defend the state of texas in this
civil forfeiture case
and everybody's face popped up except
mine mine was a cat
but oh she had it there a child had it
there
she doesn't know and i don't know it
just just
miraculously appear after that the
verdict of the judge
was to release this normally secretive
footage now seen
by millions i'm here live that's not i'm
not a cat
this latest internet star who also
appears on netflix representing possibly
the biggest
criminal justice hoaxer in history is
not the type
to let the cat out of the bag but
you can't put toothpaste back in the
tube
you know if it's if it's gone out and
it's going viral
let it go and that's for real
mark lobel bbc news
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc dot co dot uk
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with bbc news